---
layout: post
title: Robotic Localization Indoor Environment
---

Now that we have obtained an accurate map of Baskin 3rd floor hallways, the next step is to localize.

Since most of the hard work with calibrating odometry was finished and confirmed last week by our usage of GMapping (litmus test of good odmetry), the work in setting up the AMCL (Adaptive Monte Carlo Localization) Ros Package was effortless.

After loading the map into memory with map_server, I wrote the correct launch file for bringing up AMCL and brought up RViz. In the following video, notice how the particle cloud moves through the map. 

The particle cloud is the "probabilistic" aspect of the algorithm. The robot takes various guesses on where it is on the map (each guess is a particle), and for each particle it obtains superficial scan measurements (for a particle in the map, the scan should be matching these values). Any particles which are significantly different compared to the robots current scan measurement (it itself is a particle on the map) are weighted down and eventually filtered out of the map. The particles that are left on the map give an estimate of the robots pose. 

Here are the results of our work:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HfttQAg68jY" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5ZMLw-Dkc6c" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In the video we were not driving the robotic car in real time; the methodology used here and its benefits is described in (rosbag capture) http://kelvinsilva.com/Mapping-Baskin/ 

` Methodology: Decouple data from Algorithm

    First Step: Capture LIDAR data while driving around. No SLAM Algorithm running (Rosbag)
    Second Step: Bring up the algorithms and see if nodes set up correctly.
    Third Step: Play back data and watch algorithm output.
`

We drove the robotic car around the environment and recorded the odometry and laser scan data. We then played it back while AMCL was running. The results in the video would appear exactly the same as if the robotic car was running AMCL in real time.

