---
layout: post
title: Finished Udacity Course and What I learned
---

So I have finally finished the Udacity course on AI for Robotics. It was a challenging experience with many hours put into understanding the theory and basis for all of the algorithms that I am harnessing for my Autonomous Navigation project. In about a month, I went from zero knowledge of Kalman Filters, State Estimation, and Path Planning, to implementing my own Linear Kalman Filter, Particle Filter, and gaining knowledge and intuition for the A* algorithm and how it is basically grid search with heuristics attached. 

I also covered the usage of PID controllers and especially the challenge in calculating the cross-track error which is essential to achieve accurate steering of a robotic car through a given path. In this course we also quickly covered a basic SLAM algorithm though the instruction was hard to follow on this portion of the course.

I really enjoyed working with Kalman Filters as they are extremely useful, however I wish this course had covered the non-linear alternatives of Kalman filters such as the Extended and Unscented Kalman Filters (which are more useful). The main take-away from this course was learning the framework on which robotics state estimation and localization is built upon, that is -- its all about probabilities. I have witnessed first hand the inaccuracies of hardware and the large amount of chaos under which a robot senses its environment when working in my senior thesis project (Indoor Auto nav). 

In an uncertain world filled with error, it is imperative that robotic software is able to attain a working system regardless of the assumed accuracy and precision of its sensors. Throughout the class I was always amazed that through the power of statistics even a system with a large amount of error was able to localize itself and operate properly. Coming from a world where perfection is a requirement for a working program, where an off by one error can ruin your day, the results of probabilistic robotics will never cease to amaze and satisfy me.
